README.md, before:

# 101511990_comp3123_labtest2 – Weather App

This is my Lab Test 2 project for **COMP3123**.
The app is a simple weather viewer built with **ReactJS** and the **OpenWeatherMap API**.
It allows users to search any city and see real-time weather details.

---

## Features

- Built using **ReactJS (Create React App)**
- Search bar to look up any city
- Displays:

  - Temperature
  - Feels like
  - Humidity
  - Pressure
  - Wind speed
  - City + Country
  - Weather description + icon

- Custom UI using gradient background, Poppins font and weather icons
- API integration using **OpenWeatherMap Current Weather API**

---

## How to Run

1. Download or clone this repository.
2. Open the project folder (the one containing `package.json`).
3. Install dependencies:

```
npm install
```

4. Create a `.env` file in the **root folder** and add your API key or use mine as mentioned in env file or below:

```
REACT_APP_OPENWEATHER_API_KEY=9696700bec48cd72add2eb97eb894898
```

5. Start the application:

```
npm start
```

The app will run at:

```
http://localhost:3000
```

---

## API Used

**OpenWeatherMap – Current Weather Data**
[https://openweathermap.org/current](https://openweathermap.org/current)

---

## My info

- **Name:** Bramjot Singh
- **Student ID:** 101511990

---

## Screenshots

All screenshots are below and also stored inside the screenshots/ folder

1. App Home Page (Default Weather View)

This screenshot shows the application on first load, displaying the default weather for Toronto.
   
<img width="1911" height="1027" alt="App Home Page" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b8304141-5832-4f73-a01f-9044fa9f6be3" />


2. Weather Search Result (Another City)

This screenshot shows the app after searching another city, demonstrating the dynamic weather search feature.
   
<img width="1913" height="1026" alt="Weather Search Result" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3d5cb77-3403-44ff-a6bf-a33cf9a9754c" />


3. Postman API Response 1

This screenshot displays the first part of the Postman GET request to the OpenWeatherMap API for Toronto.

<img width="1903" height="880" alt="Postman API Response" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/788cffee-3353-4dd4-9567-6c2165840857" />


4. Postman API Response 2

This screenshot shows the remaining portion of the JSON response in Postman, confirming correct API usage.

<img width="1862" height="853" alt="Postman API Response 2" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8bf05382-40bd-4ffc-b75a-d61fd54cf2ed" />


5. GitHub Repository Structure

This screenshot shows the project structure uploaded using Git commands, meeting the lab’s GitHub requirement.

<img width="1283" height="826" alt="GitHub Repository Structure" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3a7fc11a-5d71-49d6-8d64-8d1a88ab2bec" />

Commit message:

Clarify Postman API Response 2 description
Updated description of Postman API response screenshot.

README.md, after:

# 101511990_comp3123_labtest2 – Weather App

This is my Lab Test 2 project for **COMP3123**.
The app is a simple weather viewer built with **ReactJS** and the **OpenWeatherMap API**.
It allows users to search any city and see real-time weather details.

---

## Features

- Built using **ReactJS (Create React App)**
- Search bar to look up any city
- Displays:

  - Temperature
  - Feels like
  - Humidity
  - Pressure
  - Wind speed
  - City + Country
  - Weather description + icon

- Custom UI using gradient background, Poppins font and weather icons
- API integration using **OpenWeatherMap Current Weather API**

---

## How to Run

1. Download or clone this repository.
2. Open the project folder (the one containing `package.json`).
3. Install dependencies:

```
npm install
```

4. Create a `.env` file in the **root folder** and add your API key or use mine as mentioned in env file or below:

```
REACT_APP_OPENWEATHER_API_KEY=9696700bec48cd72add2eb97eb894898
```

5. Start the application:

```
npm start
```

The app will run at:

```
http://localhost:3000
```

---

## API Used

**OpenWeatherMap – Current Weather Data**
[https://openweathermap.org/current](https://openweathermap.org/current)

---

## My info

- **Name:** Bramjot Singh
- **Student ID:** 101511990

---

## Screenshots

All screenshots are below and also stored inside the screenshots/ folder

1. App Home Page (Default Weather View)

This screenshot shows the application on first load, displaying the default weather for Toronto.
   
<img width="1911" height="1027" alt="App Home Page" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b8304141-5832-4f73-a01f-9044fa9f6be3" />


2. Weather Search Result (Another City)

This screenshot shows the app after searching another city, demonstrating the dynamic weather search feature.
   
<img width="1913" height="1026" alt="Weather Search Result" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3d5cb77-3403-44ff-a6bf-a33cf9a9754c" />


3. Postman API Response 1

This screenshot displays the first part of the Postman GET request to the OpenWeatherMap API for Toronto.

<img width="1903" height="880" alt="Postman API Response" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/788cffee-3353-4dd4-9567-6c2165840857" />


4. Postman API Response 2

This screenshot shows the second part of the Postman GET request to the OpenWeatherMap API for Delhi.

<img width="1862" height="853" alt="Postman API Response 2" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8bf05382-40bd-4ffc-b75a-d61fd54cf2ed" />


5. GitHub Repository Structure

This screenshot shows the project structure uploaded using Git commands, meeting the lab’s GitHub requirement.

<img width="1283" height="826" alt="GitHub Repository Structure" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3a7fc11a-5d71-49d6-8d64-8d1a88ab2bec" />
